 As of version 2.2.1, Jikes\JikesTMFootnote\ RVM has adopted the
\xlink{GNU Classpath}{http://www.classpath.org} libraries.  GNU
Classpath is an ongoing project working towards a complete set of
Java\JavaTMFootnote\ libraries, and rough guides to what portions of
the libraries exist can be found on the GNU Classpath web site.  Jikes
RVM runs with unmodified versions of GNU Classpath straight from its
ftp site, and the Jikes RVM configuration process checks out
appropriate versions of the library as needed.  Thus, the integration
can be seemless from a user's perspective.

 The automatic, seamless use of GNU Classpath is appropriate for
nearly all users of Jikes RVM, and is strongly recommended.  There are
two other configurations that work in this release, but both are
subject to change without notice in CVS head (including possible
deletion). 

\begin{description}
\item[Manual GNU Classpath] If you set the CLASSPATH\_SRC variable in
your Jikes RVM configuration file, the build process will use the
libraries that are located there.  The setup must mimic the one
generated automatically, which means that
CLASSPATH\_SRC/`config.guess` must cointain a build for your platform
and CLASSPATH\_SRC/classpath must be a version of GNU Classpath from
CVS.  This option is primarily for people who want to work on the
Jikes RVM integration with GNU Classpath; it will be maintained in
some form in the future, although the mechanics may change
arbitrarily.

\item[Hybrid OTI-GNU Classpath] This is what was standard in
the last release: a few core packages come from our old OTI-derived
libraries and the rest is from GNU Classpath.  To use these libraries
henceforth, you must give the RVM\_WITH\_GNU\_CLASSPATH=0 option to
jconfigure.  This configuration is significantly less functional than
the GNU Classpath-only version, and is provided in this release for
migration purposes only.  {\em This configuration is deprecated and
will be deleted in the future; you are STRONGLY DISCOURAGED from using
it for ANY purpose save that of migrating code that currently depends
upon it.}
\end{description}

 Some library classes require special VM support.  This is provided by
{\tt com.ibm.JikesRVM.librarySupport} and the classes found in
{\tt rvm/src/vm/OTILibrarySupport} and {\tt
rvm/src/vm/GNUClasspathSupport}.  With the impending demise of the
hybrid-OTI libraries, we anticipate that this code will be
restructured in a forthcoming release.

\JavaTMFooter
\JikesTMFooter
