This section contains the licenses used for 1) the Jikes\trademark
RVM, 2) the binary 
version of the Jikes RVM libraries, and 3) the source version of the
Jikes RVM libraries.  The GNU Classpath license is available
at \xlink{{\tt \classpathURL}}{\classpathURL}.  

As of version 2.2.1, by default the system uses only the GNU Classpath
libraries.  Naturally, when using the GNU Classpath libraries, the JLIBRARIES
and JLIBSOURCE licenses do not apply.

\index{licenses}

\subsection{Jikes RVM License}
The Jikes\trademark RVM is distribed under the Common Public License (CPL),
which has been approved by the 
\xlink{Open Source Initiative}{\osiURL}
as a fully certified open source license.

\index{CPL}

\begin{verbatim}
		Common Public License Version 0.5 

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS COMMON
PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF
THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.


1. DEFINITIONS 

"Contribution" means: 

a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and
documentation distributed under this Agreement, and  
b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:
i) changes to the Program, and
ii) additions to the Program;
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and
are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution
'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such
Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's
behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which:
(i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with
the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not
derivative works of the Program. 

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program. 


"Licensed Patents " mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor
which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution
alone or when combined with the Program.  


"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this
Agreement.  


"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this
Agreement, including all Contributors.  


2. GRANT OF RIGHTS 

a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright
license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display,
publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such
Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and
object code form. 
b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby
grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell,
import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if
any, in source code and object code form. This patent license shall
apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at
the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition
of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the
Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other
combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is
licensed hereunder. 
c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the
licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are
provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the
patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each
Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by
any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights
or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses
granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility
to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For
example, if a third party patent license is required to allow
Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility
to acquire that license before distributing the Program. 
d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient
copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright
license set forth in this Agreement.  

3. REQUIREMENTS 

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form
under its own license agreement, provided that:  

a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and
b) its license agreement:
i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties
and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or
conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or
conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;  
ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability
for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and
consequential damages, such as lost profits;  
iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are
offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and 
iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such
Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable
manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange. 
When the Program is made available in source code form: 

a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and 
b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program. 

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained
within the Program.  

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its
Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent
Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.  


4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION 

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain
responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the
like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use
of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a
commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not
create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a
Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering,
such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend
and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor")
against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising
from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party
against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts
or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its
distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The
obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property
infringement. In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a)
promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim,
and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate with
the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement
negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such
claim at its own expense.  


For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial
product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial
Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance
claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance
claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility
alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to
defend claims against the other Contributors related to those
performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other
Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor
must pay those damages.  


5. NO WARRANTY 

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY
OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and
distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its
exercise of rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to
the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable
laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and
unavailability or interruption of operations.  


6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY 

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR
ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR
DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED
HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  


7. GENERAL 

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under
applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further
action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the
minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.  


If Recipient institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with
respect to a patent applicable to software (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit), then any patent licenses granted by that
Contributor to such Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate as
of the date such litigation is filed. In addition, If Recipient
institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program
itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or
hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's
rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such
litigation is filed.  


All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it
fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this
Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of
time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's
rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use
and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably
practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and
any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall
continue and survive.  


Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement,
but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and
may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward
reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of
this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement
Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. IBM is the initial
Agreement Steward. IBM may assign the responsibility to serve as the
Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of
the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The
Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to
the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition,
after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may
elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under
the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b)
above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual
property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly,
by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not
expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.  


This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and
the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No
party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement
more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives
its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.  


\end{verbatim}

\JikesTMFooter

\subsection{Jikes RVM Library (JLIBRARIES) Binary License}

\begin{verbatim}
IBM JLIBRARIES 

END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT 

BEFORE DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING OR USING IBM JLIBRARIES, YOU SHOULD
CAREFULLY READ THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING OR USING JLIBRARIES INDICATES YOUR ACCEPTANCE
OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO
THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY NOT DOWNLOAD,
INSTALL OR USE JLIBRARIES.

GRANT OF LICENSE: 

(A) Definitions: 

JIKES RVM is a research virtual machine. 

JLIBRARIES means a set of libraries, in object code, which work with
JIKES RVM. JLIBRARIES includes, without limitation, io, lang, net, and
util.

(B) Licenses: 

Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, International
Business Machines Corporation and its affiliates (collectively
referred to in this Agreement as "IBM"), grant you a nontransferable,
non-exclusive, internal use, limited copyright license to use
JLIBRARIES, in object code only, on each computer that you use. You
may only use the JLIBRARIES with JIKES RVM.

Except for the limited rights granted above, IBM does not grant you
any other rights with respect to JLIBRARIES including, without
limitation, any right to distribute JLIBRARIES or any component of it,
commercially or otherwise.

(C) Other License Information: 

You may not reverse assemble, reverse compile, decompile, translate or
otherwise attempt to discover the source code of any component of
JLIBRARIES that is provided under this Agreement, except as permitted
by law without the possibility of contractual waiver. In addition, you
may not prepare derivative works of JLIBRARIES or any components of
it. You may not alter any of the proprietary notices on JLIBRARIES.

You agree that any information, source code, and object code that you
may provide to IBM related to JLIBRARIES is non-confidential and you
grant to IBM, its affiliates, and its licensees a non-exclusive,
fully-paid up, irrevocable license to use, make, have made, perform,
prepare and have prepared derivative works, and sublicense such
information, source code, and object code. You warrant that such
information, source code, and object code is original to you and that
you have the right to grant the licenses set out in this paragraph

LIMITATIONS: You acknowledge that under this Agreement you obtain only
the rights to JLIBRARIES as expressly stated in this Agreement. No
right, title or interest in or to any copyrights, trademarks, patents
or other proprietary or intellectual rights relating to JLIBRARIES is
transferred to you.

TERM AND TERMINATION: You may terminate your license to JLIBRARIES at
any time by written notice to IBM and by destroying all your copies of
JLIBRARIES. IBM may immediately terminate your license at any time if
you fail to comply with the terms of this Agreement or if so required
by a court of competent jurisdiction.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY AND LIABILITY: 

JLIBRARIES IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF ANY
KIND EITHER EXPRESSED, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THE ENTIRE RISK
OF THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF JLIBRARIES REMAINS WITH YOU. IN NO EVENT
WILL IBM BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS, LOST REVENUE,
LOST DATA OR FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, EVEN IF IBM HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
LOSSES OR DAMAGES. IN ADDITION, IBM WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES
CLAIMED BY YOU BASED ON ANY THIRD PARTY CLAIM.

Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties,
or the limitation of consequential damages, so the above may not apply
to you.

Note to U.S. Government Users - Documentation related to Restricted
Rights - Use, duplication, or disclosure is subject to restrictions
set forth in GSA ADP Schedule Contract with IBM Corporation.

Although IBM may try to answer technical support questions you have
regarding your use of JLIBRARIES, any such assistance does not
obligate IBM to provide support or maintenance services for
JLIBRARIES.

GENERAL: 

All terms and conditions, which by their nature should survive the
termination or expiration of this Agreement, shall survive. If any
provision of this Agreement is declared unenforceable at law, in whole
or in part, the rest of the provisions of the Agreement shall remain
in effect.

Only a written Agreement signed by both of us can modify this Agreement. 

This Agreement is entered into in the State of New York, USA, and
governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to its
conflict of law principles.

\end{verbatim}





\subsection{Jikes RVM Library (JLIBSOURCE) Source License}
\begin{verbatim}
IBM JLIBSOURCE 

END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT 


IF YOU ARE A LICENSEE UNDER THE JLIBRARIES END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
(ABOVE), YOU MAY ALSO WISH TO BE LICENSED FOR RESTRICTED ACCESS TO THE
SOURCE CODE ("JLIBSOURCE") FOR THE JLIBRARIES OBJECT CODE. IF SO, YOUR
JLIBSOURCE LICENSE WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE TERMS EXPRESSED BELOW.

BEFORE DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING OR USING IBM JLIBSOURCE, YOU SHOULD
CAREFULLY READ THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING OR USING JLIBSOURCE INDICATES YOUR ACCEPTANCE
OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO
THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY NOT DOWNLOAD,
INSTALL OR USE JLIBSOURCE.

GRANT OF LICENSE: 

(A) Definitions: 

JIKES RVM is a research virtual machine. 

JLIBRARIES means a set of libraries, in object code, which work with
JIKES RVM. JLIBRARIES includes, without limitation, io, lang, net, and
util.

API's means the application programming interfaces for JLIBRARIES 

JLIBSOURCE means the source code for JLIBRARIES . 

(B) Licenses: 


Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, International
Business Machines Corporation and its affiliates (collectively
referred to in this Agreement as "IBM"), grant you a nontransferable,
non-exclusive, internal use, limited copyright license:

i) to download and print JLIBSOURCE to enable you to view JLIBSOURCE
to understand the functions of JLIBSOURCE for performance improvement
and debugging purposes,

ii) for purposes of performance improvement and debugging only, to
modify all parts of JLIBSOURCE that exclude API's and compile such
modified JLIBSOURCE into a modified form of JLIBRARIES (that excludes
API's), for your personal use only, on both these terms and the
applicable terms of your JLIBRARIES license.

You may only use JLIBSOURCE, any modified JLIBSOURCE, and any modified
JLIBRARIES with JIKES RVM. You may not modify API's.

Except for the limited rights granted above, IBM does not grant you
any other rights with respect to JLIBSOURCE (or to any modified
JLIBSOURCE or any modified JLIBRARIES) including, without limitation,
any right to distribute JLIBSOURCE (or any modified JLIBSOURCE or any
modified JLIBRARIES), commercially or otherwise.

(C) Other License Information: 

Except as provided above, you may not prepare derivative works of
JLIBSOURCE. You may not alter any of the proprietary notices on
JLIBRARIES.

You agree to supply to IBM, in a form acceptable to IBM, copies of any
modified JLIBSOURCE promptly after modifications are made.

You agree that any information, source code, and object code that you
may provide to IBM related to JLIBSOURCE, modified JLIBSOURCE,
JLIBRARIES, and modified JLIBRARIES is non-confidential and you grant
to IBM, its affiliates, and its licensees a non-exclusive, fully-paid
up, irrevocable license to use, make, have made, perform, prepare and
have prepared derivative works, and sublicense such information,
source code, and object code. You warrant that such information,
source code, and object code is original to you and that you have the
right to grant the licenses set out in this paragraph

LIMITATIONS: You acknowledge that under this Agreement you obtain only
the rights to JLIBSOURCE, modified JLIBSOURCE, and modified JLIBRARIES
as expressly stated in this Agreement. No right, title or interest in
or to any copyrights, trademarks patents or other proprietary or
intellectual rights relating to JLIBSOURCE, modified JLIBSOURCE, and
modified JLIBRARIES is transferred to you.

TERM AND TERMINATION: You may terminate your license to JLIBSOURCE,
modified JLIBSOURCE, and modified JLIBRARIES at any time by written
notice to IBM and by destroying all your copies of JLIBSOURCE,
modified JLIBSOURCE, and modified JLIBRARIES. IBM may immediately
terminate your license at any time if you fail to comply with the
terms of this Agreement or if so required by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY AND LIABILITY: 

JLIBSOURCE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF ANY
KIND EITHER EXPRESSED, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THE ENTIRE RISK
OF THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OFJLIBSOURCE REMAINS WITH YOU. IN NO EVENT
WILL IBM BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS, LOST REVENUE,
LOST DATA OR FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, EVEN IF IBM HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
LOSSES OR DAMAGES. IN ADDITION, IBM WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES
CLAIMED BY YOU BASED ON ANY THIRD PARTY CLAIM.

Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties,
or the limitation of consequential damages, so the above may not apply
to you.

Note to U.S. Government Users - Documentation related to Restricted
Rights - Use, duplication, or disclosure is subject to restrictions
set forth in GSA ADP Schedule Contract with IBM Corporation.

Although IBM may try to answer technical support questions you have
regarding your use of JLIBSOURCE, any such assistance does not
obligate IBM to provide support or maintenance services for
JLIBSOURCE.


GENERAL: 

All terms and conditions, which by their nature should survive the
termination or expiration of this Agreement, shall survive. If any
provision of this Agreement is declared unenforceable at law, in whole
or in part, the rest of the provisions of the Agreement shall remain
in effect.

Only a written Agreement signed by both of us can modify this Agreement. 

This Agreement is entered into in the State of New York, USA, and
governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to its
conflict of law principles.

\end{verbatim}
